Add docs for testing. (#288)
yiisoft/active-record: docs/en/testing.md

# Testing

This package can be tested globally or individually for each DBMS.

- [MSSQL](https://github.com/yiisoft/db-mssql)
- [MySQL/MariaDB](https://github.com/yiisoft/db-mysql)
- [Oracle](https://github.com/yiisoft/db-oracle)
- [PostgreSQL](https://github.com/yiisoft/db-pgsql)
- [SQLite](https://github.com/yiisoft/db-sqlite)

> ## Github actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## GitHub actions
```

> All our packages have github actions by default, so you can test your [contribution](https://github.com/yiisoft/db/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) in the cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All our packages have GitHub actions by default, so you can test your [contribution](https://github.com/yiisoft/db/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) in the cloud.
```

> Note: We recommend pull requesting in draft mode until all tests pass.

## Docker images

> For greater ease it is recommended to use Docker containers for each DBMS, for this you can use the [docker-compose.yml](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/) file that in the root directory of each package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For greater ease we recommend to use Docker container for each DBMS. For this you can use the [docker-compose.yml](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/) file that's in the root directory of each package.
```

- [MSSQL 2022](https://github.com/yiisoft/db-mssql/blob/master/docker-compose.yml)
- [MySQL 8](https://github.com/yiisoft/db-mysql/blob/master/docker-compose.yml)
- [MariaDB 10.11](https://github.com/yiisoft/db-mysql/blob/master/docker-compose-mariadb.yml)
- [Oracle 21](https://github.com/yiisoft/db-oracle/blob/master/docker-compose.yml)
- [PostgreSQL 15](https://github.com/yiisoft/db-pgsql/blob/master/docker-compose.yml)

> For running the Docker containers you can use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Docker containers you can use the following command:
```

```shell
docker compose up -d
```

## Unit testing

The package is tested with [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/).

### Global testing

> The following steps are required to run the tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps are required to run tests.
```

> 1. Install all dbms dependencies with composer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install all DBMS dependencies with composer.
```

```shell
composer require --dev yiisoft/db-mssql yiisoft/db-mysql yiisoft/db-oracle yiisoft/db-pgsql yiisoft/db-sqlite --ansi
```

> 2. Run all Docker containers for each dbms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run all Docker containers for each DBMS.
```

3. Run the tests.

```shell
vendor/bin/phpunit
```

### Individual testing

The following steps are required to run the tests.

> 1. Install dbms dependencies with composer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install DBMS dependencies with Composer.
```

```shell
composer require --dev yiisoft/db-pgsql --ansi
```

> 2. Run the Docker container for the dbms you want to test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the Docker container for the DBMS you want to test.
```
